Camera pipelines

The

rc_visard NG

 supports multiple cameras at the same time. For this, it offers up to
four

camera pipelines

 that can be configured by the user.

A camera pipeline contains several software modules which are
responsible for acquiring data of the camera connected to that
pipeline, performing detections or configuring modules used in this
pipeline, e.g. by hand-eye calibration.

The

rc_visard NG

 supports cameras of type

rc_visard

,

rc_viscore

,

zivid

,

Orbbec

,

Stereo ace

 and

blaze

. The type of the corresponding camera pipeline has to be configured
to match the connected device.

Configuration of camera pipelines

The camera pipelines can be configured via the

Web GUI

 under System ‣ Camera Pipelines. This page shows the running
pipelines with their types and the connected devices.


Clicking on Configure Camera Pipelines allows to configure the number
and type of running pipelines as shown in the next figure.

Note: The

  rc_cube I

   provides four camera pipelines, the

  rc_cube S

   two.


The type of a running pipeline can be changed by selecting a different
type in the drop down field. A running pipeline can be removed by
clicking Remove Pipeline. Only pipeline 0 can never be removed,
because this is the primary pipeline. Clicking on + Add Pipeline
allows to choose the type for the new pipeline and creates a new
pipeline of the chosen type. Once the pipelines are configured as
desired, clicking Apply Changes & Reboot will apply the new
configuration and immediately reboot the

rc_cube

.

Configuration of connected cameras

A pipeline of a certain type can only discover devices of the same
type. That means, a pipeline of type "rc_visard" can only connect to
an

rc_visard

. In case multiple cameras of the same type are connected to the

rc_cube

, the user can set a

device filter

 to choose a specific camera for each pipeline. The current device
filter value is displayed for each running pipeline as shown in "fig-
pipelines-running". By default, the device filter is set to "*", which
means that any device matching the pipeline type will automatically be
connected, but only if there is a unique match. Otherwise, no camera
will be connected to that pipeline and an error will be shown.

To adjust the device filter and select the camera to be connected to a
pipeline, click on Configure Camera Connection on the

Camera Pipelines

 page, or select the corresponding pipeline in the menu, e.g. under
System ‣ Camera Pipelines ‣ Pipeline 1. This will show the current
device filter value and more information about the connected camera.


Clicking Choose Camera opens a dialog to edit the device filter.


This dialog also shows a list of all discovered devices matching the
pipeline type and highlights the ones that match the current value
entered for the device filter. It also indicates if the devices are
already in use in a different pipeline. Device filters can be selected
by clicking on an

Interface

,

Name

 or

Serial

 of the desired device in the list. The following table shows possible
device filter values.

Possible device filter values      Device filter  Description  *
selects any device matching the pipeline type  sensor<n>:*  selects
any device connected via the sensor<n> interface that matches the
pipeline type  <name>  selects the device by the user-defined name
<serial>  selects the device by the full serial number
sensor<n>:<serial>  selects the device connected via the sensor<n>
interface with the given serial  sensor<n>:<name>  selects the device
connected via the sensor<n> interface with the given user-defined name
if empty, no camera will be connected

By pressing Save, the entered device filter is applied and a camera
matching the device filter is connected to this pipeline, if possible.
Changing the device filter does not require a reboot of the

rc_cube

.
