Installation

Warning: The instructions on

  Safety

   related to the

  rc_visard NG

   must be read and understood prior to installation.

The

rc_visard NG

 offers a Gigabit Ethernet interface for connecting the device to a
computer network. All communications to and from the device are
performed via this interface. The

rc_visard NG

 has an on-board computing resource that requires booting time after
powering up the device.

Software license

Every

rc_visard NG

 device ships with a pre-installed license file for licensing and
protection of the installed software packages. The license is bound to
that specific

rc_visard NG

 device and cannot be used or transferred to other devices.

The functionality of the

rc_visard NG

 can be enhanced anytime by

upgrading the license

, e.g., for optionally available software modules.

Note: The

  rc_visard NG

   requires to be rebooted whenever the installed licenses have
  changed.

Note: The license status can be retrieved via the

  rc_visard NG

  's various interfaces such as the System ‣ Firmware & License page
  of the

  Web GUI

  .

Power up

Note: Always fully connect and tighten the M12 power connector on
  the

  rc_visard NG


  before

   turning on the power supply.

After connecting the

rc_visard NG

 to the power, the LED on the front of the device should immediately
illuminate. During the device's boot process, the LED will change
color and will eventually turn green. This signals that all processes
are up and running.

If the network is not plugged in or the network is not properly
configured, then the LED will flash red every 5 seconds. In this case,
the device's network configuration should be verified. See

LED colors

 for more information on the LED color codes.

Discovery of rc_visard NG devices

Roboception

rc_visard NG

 devices that are powered up and connected to the local network or
directly to a computer can be found using the standard GigE Vision®
discovery mechanism.

Roboception offers the open-source tool "rcdiscover-gui", which can be
downloaded free of charge from

https://github.com/roboception/rcdiscover/releases

 for Windows and Linux. The tool's Windows version consists of a
single executable for Windows 7, 10 and 11, which can be executed
without installation. For Linux an installation package is available
for Ubuntu.

At startup, all available GigE Vision® devices -- including

rc_visard NG

 devices -- are listed with their names, serial numbers, current IP
addresses, and unique MAC addresses. The discovery tool finds all
devices reachable by global broadcasts. Misconfigured devices that are
located in different subnets than the application host may also be
listed. A tickmark in the discovery tool indicates whether devices are
actually reachable via a web browser.


After successful discovery, a double click on the device row opens the

Web GUI

 of the device in the operating system's default web browser. Google
Chrome or Mozilla Firefox are recommended as web browser.

Resetting configuration

A misconfigured device can be reset by using the

Reset rc_visard

 button in the discovery tool. The reset mechanism is only available
for two minutes after device startup. Thus, the

rc_visard NG

 may require rebooting before being able to reset the device.


If the discovery tool still successfully detects the the misconfigured

rc_visard NG

, then the latter can be selected from the

rc-visard

 drop-down menu. Otherwise, the

rc_visard NG

's MAC address, which is printed on the device label, can be entered
manually into the designated fields.

One of four options can be chosen after entering the MAC address:

Reset Parameters: Reset all rc_visard NG parameters, such as frame
rate, that are configurable via Web GUI\ (Section \ref{webgui:sect-
web-gui}).

Reset Network: Reset network settings and user-defined name.

Reset All: Reset the rc_visard NG parameters as well as network
settings and user-defined name.

Switch Partitions: Allows a rollback to be performed as described in
Restoring the previous firmware version\:(Section \ref{maintenance
:sect-restoring-the-previous-firmware-version}).

A white status LED followed by a device reboot indicates a successful
reset. If no reaction is noticeable, the two minutes time slot may
have elapsed, requiring another reboot.

Note: The reset mechanism is only available for the first two
  minutes after startup.

Network configuration

The

rc_visard NG

 requires an Internet Protocol (

IP

) address for communication with other network devices. The IP address
must be unique in the local network, and can be set either manually
via a user-configurable persistent IP address, or automatically via

DHCP

. If none of these IP configuration methods apply, the

rc_visard NG

 falls back to a

Link-Local

 IP address.

Following the

GigE Vision

® standard, the priority of IP configuration methods on the

rc_visard NG

 is

   Persistent IP (if enabled)

   DHCP (if enabled)

   Link-Local


Options for changing the

rc_visard NG

's network settings and IP configuration are:

   the System ‣ Network page of the rc_visard NG's Web GUI -- if it is
   reachable in the local network already, see Web GUI\:(Section
   \ref{webgui:sect-web-gui})

   any configuration tool compatible with GigE Vision® 2.0, or
   Roboception's command-line tool gc_config. Typically, these tools
   scan for all available GigE Vision® devices on the network. All
   rc_visard NG devices can be uniquely identified by their serial
   number and MAC address, which are both printed on the device.

   temporarily changing or completely resetting the rc_visard NG's
   network configuration via Roboception's rcdiscover-gui tool, see
   Discovery of rc_visard NG devices\:(Section \ref{installation:sect-
   discovery-of-rcvisard-devices})

Note: The command-line tool "gc_config" is part of Roboception's
  open- source convenience layer "rc_genicam_api", which can be
  downloaded free of charge for Windows and Linux from

  http://www.roboception.com/download

  .

Host name

The

rc_visard NG

's host name is based on its serial number, which is printed on the
device, and is defined as "rc-visard-ng-<serial number>".

Automatic configuration (factory default)

The Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (

DHCP

) is preferred for setting an IP address. If DHCP is active on the

rc_visard NG

, which is the factory default, the device tries to contact a DHCP
server at startup and every time the network cable is being plugged
in. If a DHCP server is available on the network, the IP address is
automatically configured.

In some networks, the DHCP server is configured so that it only
accepts known devices. In this case, the Media Access Control address
(

MAC address

), which is printed on the device label, needs to be configured in the
DHCP server. At the same time, the

rc_visard NG

's host name can also be set in the Domain Name Server (

DNS

). Both MAC address and host name should be sent to the network
administrator for configuration.

If the

rc_visard NG

 cannot contact a DHCP server within about 15 seconds after startup,
or after plugging in the network cable, it assigns itself a unique IP
address. This process is called

Link-Local

. This option is especially useful for connecting the

rc_visard NG

 directly to a computer. The computer must be configured for Link-
Local as well. Link-Local might already be configured as a standard
fallback option, as it is under Windows 10. Other operating systems
such as Linux require Link-Local to be explicitly configured in their
network managers.

Manual configuration

Specifying a persistent, i.e. static IP address manually might be
useful in some cases. This address is stored on the

rc_visard NG

 to be used on device startup or network reconnection. Please make
sure the selected IP address, subnet mask and gateway will not cause
any conflicts on the network.

Warning: The IP address must be unique within the local network and
  within the local network's range of valid addresses. Furthermore,
  the subnet mask must match the local network; otherwise, the

  rc_visard NG

   may become inaccessible. This can be avoided by using automatic
  configuration as explained in

  Automatic configuration (factory default)

  .

If this IP address cannot be assigned, e.g. because it is already used
by another device in the network, IP configuration will fall back to
automatic configuration via

DHCP

 (if enabled) or a

Link-Local

 address.
