Stereo vision

In

stereo vision

, 3D information about a scene can be extracted by comparing two
images taken from different viewpoints. The main idea behind using a
camera pair for measuring depth is the fact that object points appear
at different positions in the two camera images depending on their
distance from the camera pair. Very distant object points appear at
approximately the same position in both images, whereas very close
object points occupy different positions in the left and right camera
image. The object points' displacement in the two images is called

disparity

. The larger the disparity, the closer the object is to the camera.
The principle is illustrated in

Fig. 14

.


Stereo vision is a form of passive sensing, meaning that it emits
neither light nor other signals to measure distances, but uses only
light that the environment emits or reflects. Thus, the Roboception
products utilizing this sensing principle can work indoors and
outdoors and multiple devices can work together without interferences.

To compute the 3D information, the stereo matching algorithm must be
able to find corresponding object points in the left and right camera
images. For this, the algorithm requires texture, meaning changes in
image intensity values due to patterns or the objects' surface
structure, in the images. Stereo matching is not possible for
completely untextured regions, such as a flat white wall without any
visible surface structure. The stereo matching method used by the

rc_visard NG

 is

SGM

 (

Semi-Global Matching

), which provides the best trade-off between runtime and accuracy,
even for fine structures.

The following software modules are required to compute 3D information:

Camera module: This module is responsible for capturing synchronized
image pairs and transforming them into images approaching those taken
by an ideal camera (rectification).

Stereo matching module: This module computes disparities for the
rectified stereo image pair using SGM\:(Section \ref{stereo_matching
:sect-stereo-matching}).

For stereo matching, the position and orientation of the left and
right cameras relative to each other has to be known with very high
accuracy. This is achieved by calibration. The

rc_visard NG

's cameras are pre-calibrated during production. However, if the

rc_visard NG

 has been decalibrated, during transport for example, then the user
has to recalibrate the stereo camera:

Camera calibration: This module enables the user to recalibrate the
rc_visard NG's stereo camera\:(Section \ref{camera_calibration:sect-
camera-calibration}).
