Safety

Warning: The operator must have read and understood all of the
  instructions in this manual before handling the

  rc_visard NG

   product.

Note: The term "operator" refers to anyone responsible for any of
  the following tasks performed in conjunction with

  rc_visard NG

  :

     Installation

     Maintenance

     Inspection

     Calibration

     Programming

     Decommissioning

This manual explains the

rc_visard NG

's various components and general operations regarding the product's
whole life-cycle, from installation through operation to
decommissioning.

The drawings and photos in this documentation are representative
examples; differences may exist between them and the delivered
product.

General warnings

Note: Any use of the

  rc_visard NG

   in noncompliance with these warnings is inappropriate and may cause
  injury or damage as well as void the warranty.

Warning:

  The rc_visard NG needs to be properly mounted before use.

  All cable sets need to be secured to the rc_visard NG and the mount.

  Cords must be at most 30 m long.

  An appropriate DC power source must supply power to the rc_visard
  NG.

  Each rc_visard NG must be connected to a separate power supply.

  The rc_visard NG's housing must be grounded.

  The rc_visard NG's and any related equipment's safety guidelines
  must always be satisfied.

  The rc_visard NG does not fall under the purview of the machinery,
  low voltage, or medical directives.

-[ Risk assessment and final application: ]-

The

rc_visard NG

 may be used on a robot. Robot,

rc_visard NG

, and any other equipment used in the final application must be
evaluated with a risk assessment. The system integrator's duty is to
ensure respect for all local safety measures and regulations.
Depending on the application, there may be risks that need additional
protection/safety measures.

Intended use

The

rc_visard NG

 is intended for data acquisition (e.g., images,  disparity images) in
stationary and mobile robotic applications. The

rc_visard NG

 is intended for installation on a robot, automated machinery, mobile
platform, or stationary equipment. It can also be used for data
acquisition in other applications.

Warning: The

  rc_visard NG

   is

  NOT

   intended for safety critical applications.

The GigE Vision® industry standard used by the

rc_visard NG

 does not support authentication and encryption. All data from and to
the device is transmitted without authentication and encryption and
could be monitored or manipulated by a third party. It is the
operator's responsibility to connect the

rc_visard NG

 only to a secured internal network.

Warning: The

  rc_visard NG

   must be connected to secured internal networks.

The

rc_visard NG

 may be used only within the scope of its technical specification. Any
other use of the product is deemed unintended use. Roboception will
not be liable for any damages resulting from any improper or
unintended use.

Warning: Always comply with local and/or national laws, regulations
  and directives on automation safety and general machine safety.
