Glossary

DHCP
   The Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) is used to
   automatically assign an

   IP

    address to a network device. Some DHCP servers only accept known
   devices. In this case, an administrator needs to configure the DHCP
   server with the fixed

   MAC address

    of a device.

DNS
mDNS
   The Domain Name Server (DNS) manages the host names and

   IP

    addresses of all network devices. It is responsible for resolving
   the host name into the IP address for communication with a device.
   A DNS can be configured to get this information automatically when
   a device appears on a network or manually by an administrator. In
   contrast,

   multicast DNS

    (mDNS) works without a central server by querying all devices on a
   local network each time a host name needs to be resolved. mDNS is
   available by default on Linux and Mac operating systems and is used
   when '.local' is appended to a host name.

DOF
   The Degrees Of Freedom (DOF) are the number of independent
   parameters for translation and rotation. In 3D space, 6 DOF (i.e.
   three for translation and three rotation) are sufficient to
   describe an arbitrary position and orientation.

GenICam
   GenICam is a generic standard interface for cameras. It serves as a
   unified interface around other standards such as

   GigE Vision

   , Camera Link, USB, etc. See

   http://genicam.org

    for more information.

GigE
   Gigabit Ethernet (GigE) is a networking technology for transmitting
   data at one gigabit per second.

GigE Vision
   GigE Vision® is a standard for configuring cameras and transmitting
   images over a

   GigE

    network link. See

   http://gigevision.com

    for more information.

IP
IP address
   The Internet Protocol (IP) is a standard for sending data between
   devices in a computer network. Every device requires an IP address,
   which must be unique in the network. The IP address can be
   configured by

   DHCP

   ,

   Link-Local

   , or manually.

Link-Local
   Link-Local is a technology where network devices associate
   themselves with an

   IP address

    from the 169.254.0.0/16 IP range and check if it is unique in the
   local network. Link-Local can be used if

   DHCP

    is unavailable and manual IP configuration is not or cannot be
   done. Link-Local is especially useful for connecting a network
   device directly to a host computer. By default, Windows 10 reverts
   automatically to Link-Local if DHCP is unavailable. Under Linux,
   Link-Local must be enabled manually in the network manager.

MAC address
   The Media Access Control (MAC) address is a unique, persistent
   address for networking devices. It is also known as the hardware
   address of a device. In contrast to the

   IP address

   , the MAC address is (normally) permanently given to a device and
   does not change.

NTP
   The Network Time Protocol (NTP) is a TCP/IP protocol for
   synchronizing time over a network. Basically a client requests the
   current time from a server, and uses it to set its own clock.

SDK
   A Software Development Kit (SDK) is a collection of software
   development tools or a collection of software components.

SGM
   SGM stands for Semi-Global Matching and is a state-of-the-art
   stereo matching algorithm which offers short run times and a great
   accuracy, especially at object borders, fine structures, and in
   weakly textured areas.

TCP
   The Tool Center Point (TCP) is the position of the tool at the end
   effector of a robot. The position and orientation of the TCP
   determines the position and orientation of the tool in 3D space.

URI
URL
   A Uniform Resource Identifier (URI) is a string of characters
   identifying resources of the

   rc_visard NG

   's REST-API. An example of such a URI is
   "/nodes/rc_camera/parameters/fps", which points to the "fps" run-
   time parameter of the stereo camera module.

   A Uniform Resource Locator (URL) additionally specifies the full
   network location and protocol, i.e., an exemplary URL to locate the
   above resource would be
   "https://<ip>/api/v1/nodes/rc_camera/parameters/fps" where "<ip>"
   refers to the

   rc_visard NG

   's

   IP address

   .

XYZ+quaternion
   Format to represent a pose. See

   Rotation matrix and translation vector

    for its definition.

XYZABC
   Format to represent a pose. See

   KUKA XYZ-ABC format

    for its definition.
